README.md, before:

# BestProgramsForWindows

List of all the programs I would install if I ever build a new computer with Windows, reset my existing Windows computer or if somebody asks me with which program he should do x on Windows. (Many programs on this list are cross platform - this means there is a high chance even as a Linux user you could find here a good program - in future updates I will probably add a tag if this is the case)

---

Supported tags (always in this order):

- `lightweight` - The program is *small* which not only means that the installer is small but also that the installed program is not unnecessary big and very fast if executed
- `open source` - The code of the software is hosted online and can be viewed by anyone which means if there are any back doors/bugs/privacy issues anyone can flag or discover them
- `linux` / `linux+mac` / `mac` - The same software is also available on the named desktop platforms
- `64bit` - The program supports more than 4GB of RAM and can be better for professional or heavy use

---

## Audio & Video

- [MPV](https://mpv.io/installation/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>A fast and lightweight video player for any file (can also play audio files)
- [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>A fast and feature rich video and audio player for any file and CD's, DVDs + [not locked] Blu-Rays
- [foobar2000](https://www.foobar2000.org/download): `lightweight` `open source`<br>A fast and lightweight audio library manager and player of any audio files
- [Mp3Tag](https://www.mp3tag.de/en/): `lightweight`<br>Edits one or many audio files (MP3s, artist, cover, ....)
- [mp3DirectCut](http://mpesch3.de1.cc/mp3dc.html): `lightweight`<br>Edit a MP3/AAC audio file
- [Audacity](https://www.audacityteam.org/): `open source` `linux+mac`<br>A audio editor/creator/recorder
- [Handbrake](https://handbrake.fr/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Convert video files and reduce them in their size without loosing too much quality + rips CDs, DVDs + [not locked] Blu-Rays
- [youtube-dl-gui](https://github.com/MrS0m30n3/youtube-dl-gui/releases): `lightweight` `open source`<br>Downloads lightning fast videos from websites like YouTube for offline use

## Streaming

- [auryo](http://auryo.com/): `linux+mac`<br>Unofficial Soundcloud audio streaming app
- [Spotify](https://www.spotify.com/us/): `linux+mac`<br>Spotify audio streaming app (free with advertising)

## Pictures

- [IrfanView](http://www.irfanview.com/64bit.htm): `lightweight` `64bit`<br>A fast picture viewer (of images of all kinds)
- [Paint.net](https://www.getpaint.net/): `lightweight`<br>A basic image editor/converter
- [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/en/release/0.92.2/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>A vector graphics editor (can also convert vector graphics to *normal* images)
- **[Not free!]** [Adobe Photoshop](https://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop.html)<br>Expensive, but perfect to professionally manipulate/create images/graphics

## Internet Browser

- [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/): `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Browse the web (+ developer features)
- [Firefox Nightly](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/channel/desktop/): `open source` `linux` `64bit`<br>Browse the web with a bit more privacy (+ developer features)

## Office/Documents

- [Sumatra PDF](https://www.sumatrapdfreader.org/download-free-pdf-viewer.html): `lightweight` `64bit`<br>A fast PDF reader/searcher (only reads/presents files - with one click opens them in other PDF readers)
- [Adobe Acrobat Reader DC](https://get.adobe.com/reader/):<br>Great PDF printer, can also read and comment PDF files
- [Libre Office](https://www.libreoffice.org/): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Create and edit documents (also can make presentations [slow] and tables)
- [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/): `lightweight` `open source` `64bit`<br> Fast text editor with fast find, replace, syntax highlighting options
- [PDF24 Creator](https://en.pdf24.org/pdf-creator-download.html): `lightweight`<br>A PDF converter/printer
- [PDFsam Basic](https://pdfsam.org/): `open source` `linux+mac`<br>Merge/Split/Edit PDF files + extracts pages or rotate them
- **[Currently free while in beta]** [Typora](https://typora.io/): `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Markdown editor with many features (live preview, latex math, direct export)
- **[Not free!]** [Microsoft Office Excel, PowerPoint and Word](https://products.office.com/en-us/?WT.mc_id=OAN_en-us_MSCOM-Footer-ProductSite-Office): `64bit`<br>(create tables, presentations and documents)

## Other Tools

- [MiniTool Partition Wizard](https://www.partitionwizard.com/free-partition-manager.html):<br>Manage partitions on storage devices
- [Etcher](https://etcher.io/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Burn images to USB sticks/Create Live Discs
- [Everything](https://www.voidtools.com/): `lightweight` `64bit`<br>Find any file lightning fast
- [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/download): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Stream or record your screen (as a video) or only some of the windows with the Open Broadcaster Software Studio (streams seamless to twitch/YouTube/...)
- [VeraCrypt](https://www.veracrypt.fr/en/Downloads.html): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Encrypts containers/drives
- [Format Factory](http://www.pcfreetime.com/formatfactory/index.php?language=en):<br>Multi functional converter software (converts almost every multimedia file to everything)

## Programming

- [Brackets](http://brackets.io/): `open source` `linux+mac` <br>*Edit and preview live* HTML and CSS (JavaScript is supported too)
- [Visual Studio Code Insiders](https://code.visualstudio.com/insiders/): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>With extension you have syntax highlighting for nearly any language plus you get a console below the code with which you can directly compile/run it (Python, JavaScript, ...)
- [Eclipse (Oxygen)](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Create/edit/export Java projects (also supports Java Maven projects)
- [VisualStudio Community](https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/): `64bit`<br>Create/edit/export C++, C#, C projects and more
- [XAMPP](https://www.apachefriends.org/index.html): `open source` `linux+mac`<br>Create a local HTTP/PHP server on your computer
- [FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Connect your computer to a SFTP/FTP server
- [Git/GitBash](Git/GitBash): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Source code version control on a new level
- [GitHubDesktop](https://desktop.github.com/): `open source` `mac` `64bit`<br>Git Github client (simple)
- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Creating/editing/testing/exporting Android projects
- [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/): `lightweight` `open source` `64bit`<br>Text editor with fast find, replace, syntax highlighting options
- [SQLite Studio:](https://sqlitestudio.pl/index.rvt) `lightweight`<br>A portable SQLite database editor/creator with a console

Commit message:

Added Space Sniffer (disc space analyzer)

README.md, after:

# BestProgramsForWindows

List of all the programs I would install if I ever build a new computer with Windows, reset my existing Windows computer or if somebody asks me with which program he should do x on Windows. (Many programs on this list are cross platform - this means there is a high chance even as a Linux user you could find here a good program - in future updates I will probably add a tag if this is the case)

---

Supported tags (always in this order):

- `lightweight` - The program is *small* which not only means that the installer is small but also that the installed program is not unnecessary big and very fast if executed
- `open source` - The code of the software is hosted online and can be viewed by anyone which means if there are any back doors/bugs/privacy issues anyone can flag or discover them
- `linux` / `linux+mac` / `mac` - The same software is also available on the named desktop platforms
- `64bit` - The program supports more than 4GB of RAM and can be better for professional or heavy use

---

## Audio & Video

- [MPV](https://mpv.io/installation/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>A fast and lightweight video player for any file (can also play audio files)
- [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>A fast and feature rich video and audio player for any file and CD's, DVDs + [not locked] Blu-Rays
- [foobar2000](https://www.foobar2000.org/download): `lightweight` `open source`<br>A fast and lightweight audio library manager and player of any audio files
- [Mp3Tag](https://www.mp3tag.de/en/): `lightweight`<br>Edits one or many audio files (MP3s, artist, cover, ....)
- [mp3DirectCut](http://mpesch3.de1.cc/mp3dc.html): `lightweight`<br>Edit a MP3/AAC audio file
- [Audacity](https://www.audacityteam.org/): `open source` `linux+mac`<br>A audio editor/creator/recorder
- [Handbrake](https://handbrake.fr/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Convert video files and reduce them in their size without loosing too much quality + rips CDs, DVDs + [not locked] Blu-Rays
- [youtube-dl-gui](https://github.com/MrS0m30n3/youtube-dl-gui/releases): `lightweight` `open source`<br>Downloads lightning fast videos from websites like YouTube for offline use

## Streaming

- [auryo](http://auryo.com/): `linux+mac`<br>Unofficial Soundcloud audio streaming app
- [Spotify](https://www.spotify.com/us/): `linux+mac`<br>Spotify audio streaming app (free with advertising)

## Pictures

- [IrfanView](http://www.irfanview.com/64bit.htm): `lightweight` `64bit`<br>A fast picture viewer (of images of all kinds)
- [Paint.net](https://www.getpaint.net/): `lightweight`<br>A basic image editor/converter
- [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/en/release/0.92.2/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>A vector graphics editor (can also convert vector graphics to *normal* images)
- **[Not free!]** [Adobe Photoshop](https://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop.html)<br>Expensive, but perfect to professionally manipulate/create images/graphics

## Internet Browser

- [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/): `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Browse the web (+ developer features)
- [Firefox Nightly](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/channel/desktop/): `open source` `linux` `64bit`<br>Browse the web with a bit more privacy (+ developer features)

## Office/Documents

- [Sumatra PDF](https://www.sumatrapdfreader.org/download-free-pdf-viewer.html): `lightweight` `64bit`<br>A fast PDF reader/searcher (only reads/presents files - with one click opens them in other PDF readers)
- [Adobe Acrobat Reader DC](https://get.adobe.com/reader/):<br>Great PDF printer, can also read and comment PDF files
- [Libre Office](https://www.libreoffice.org/): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Create and edit documents (also can make presentations [slow] and tables)
- [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/): `lightweight` `open source` `64bit`<br> Fast text editor with fast find, replace, syntax highlighting options
- [PDF24 Creator](https://en.pdf24.org/pdf-creator-download.html): `lightweight`<br>A PDF converter/printer
- [PDFsam Basic](https://pdfsam.org/): `open source` `linux+mac`<br>Merge/Split/Edit PDF files + extracts pages or rotate them
- **[Currently free while in beta]** [Typora](https://typora.io/): `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Markdown editor with many features (live preview, latex math, direct export)
- **[Not free!]** [Microsoft Office Excel, PowerPoint and Word](https://products.office.com/en-us/?WT.mc_id=OAN_en-us_MSCOM-Footer-ProductSite-Office): `64bit`<br>(create tables, presentations and documents)

## Other Tools

- [MiniTool Partition Wizard](https://www.partitionwizard.com/free-partition-manager.html):<br>Manage partitions on storage devices
- [Etcher](https://etcher.io/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Burn images to USB sticks/Create Live Discs
- [Everything](https://www.voidtools.com/): `lightweight` `64bit`<br>Find any file lightning fast
- [OBS Studio](https://obsproject.com/download): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Stream or record your screen (as a video) or only some of the windows with the Open Broadcaster Software Studio (streams seamless to twitch/YouTube/...)
- [Space Snniffer](http://www.uderzo.it/main_products/space_sniffer/) `lightweight`<br>Displays all your storage in a clear treemap which is clickable and has a filter so that you can after one intial scan and after that a live surveillance while open find files (that are for example the reason for low storage)
- [VeraCrypt](https://www.veracrypt.fr/en/Downloads.html): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Encrypts containers/drives
- [Format Factory](http://www.pcfreetime.com/formatfactory/index.php?language=en):<br>Multi functional converter software (converts almost every multimedia file to everything)

## Programming

- [Brackets](http://brackets.io/): `open source` `linux+mac` <br>*Edit and preview live* HTML and CSS (JavaScript is supported too)
- [Visual Studio Code Insiders](https://code.visualstudio.com/insiders/): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>With extension you have syntax highlighting for nearly any language plus you get a console below the code with which you can directly compile/run it (Python, JavaScript, ...)
- [Eclipse (Oxygen)](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Create/edit/export Java projects (also supports Java Maven projects)
- [VisualStudio Community](https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/): `64bit`<br>Create/edit/export C++, C#, C projects and more
- [XAMPP](https://www.apachefriends.org/index.html): `open source` `linux+mac`<br>Create a local HTTP/PHP server on your computer
- [FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Connect your computer to a SFTP/FTP server
- [Git/GitBash](Git/GitBash): `lightweight` `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Source code version control on a new level
- [GitHubDesktop](https://desktop.github.com/): `open source` `mac` `64bit`<br>Git Github client (simple)
- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html): `open source` `linux+mac` `64bit`<br>Creating/editing/testing/exporting Android projects
- [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/): `lightweight` `open source` `64bit`<br>Text editor with fast find, replace, syntax highlighting options
- [SQLite Studio:](https://sqlitestudio.pl/index.rvt) `lightweight`<br>A portable SQLite database editor/creator with a console
